.TH ARKDEP 8 "21 April 2024"
.SH NAME
arkdep - Manage arkdep deployments
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBarkdep\fR {option} <version>...
.br
\fBarkdep\fR {option} [variant] [version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Arkdep is a utility which downloads, deploys and manages Btrfs subvolume exports.

It is able to perform atomic and immutable system updates, migrate local data to new deployments and update the systemd-boot bootloader configuration with entries for said new deployments.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS deploy
Deploy a new or update an existing deployment.
.SS init
Initialize arkdep on a new system.
.SS teardown
Remove all arkdep-deploy related files and folders.
.SS cleanup
Remove any hanging images, unfinished downloads and untracked deployments.
.SS healthcheck
Check for and report any config issues or untracked deployments.
.SS get-available
Get and print available variants in repo.
.SS diff
Generate and print diff between current deployment and an image from the repos.
.SS remove
Remove specified deployments.
.SS layer
Install a package to the current deployment and any future deployments.
.SS unlayer
Remove a layered package from the current deployment and no longer layer it on future deployments.
.SS layer-ls
List all packages to be layered.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SS ARKDEP_ROOT
Prepend path to arkdep target directory, implies ARKDEP_CONFIRM.
.SS ARKDEP_BOOT
Set custom /boot location, overwrites ARKDEP_ROOT on relevant tasks if set. Implies ARKDEP_LEGACY_INITRAMFS.
.SS ARKDEP_CONFIRM
Skip interactive prompts.
.SS ARKDEP_CONFIG
Override configuration file location.
.SS ARKDEP_DATABASE
Override repository database filename.
.SS ARKDEP_LEGACY_INITRAMFS
Build the initramfs using binaries and files sourced from the current root, kernel modules and dracut configuration are still acquired from the new deployment.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS arkdep deploy
Check for updates, if available download and deploy.
.SS arkdep deploy test-arkanelinux-kde
Download and deploy the latest version of the defined image variant.
.SS arkdep deploy - stable_v1
Download the specified image version from the default variant.
.SS arkdep deploy test-arkanelinux-kde stable_v1
Download the defined image version from the specified variant.
.SS arkdep deploy cache stable_v1
Deploy an image from the local cache skipping database download and checksum check.
.SS arkdep remove stable_v1
Remove the defined deployment.
.SS arkdep diff
Generate diff between currently active deployment and latest version of the default variant.
.SS arkdep diff test-arkanelinux-kde
Generate diff between current deployment and latest version of the specified variant.
.SS arkdep diff test-arkanelinux-kde aabbcc123
Generate diff between current version and a defined version of a specified variant.
